Of course, the corps commander, deputy
commander, we did not interview his staff. And
company commanders were interviewed by the
respective service, but I sat in on some of those.
But we only did the leadership jobs.
Can you give some examples of the kinds of
questions, the kinds of concerns y'all had? Well,
we asked them the same sort of things you're
asking, you know, what were their goals and what
were they going to do about keeping the freshmen in
the outfits and the attrition rate was one of the
biggest problems we had and probably still have.
because there was such a change in lifestyle to go
from high school into the Corps of Cadets. And, you
know, they need to understand that thoroughly and
not try to run them, see how tough they are so they
can run them off. And I think that was the biggest
thing we worked up, and so did the Corps, for the
most part, the Corps style. Do you remember any
goofy answers that anybody gave? Any that were
humorous? Oh, I really don't. I think they were
pretty well brief before they came in. And about
how long would these interviews last? Probably an
hour. And that'd be in the spring? Yes, before
they... I've forgotten when the... before the
elephant walk came. And General Simpson,
incidentally, started interviewing, took over
the interview process after he'd gotten his feet
on the ground, but in my office. Oh, did he come
during your time? Yes. Oh, describe that. Well,
one day, Dr. Williams called me and He says, this is
on a Friday. Tom, I got great news. And I said, yes,
sir. And what's that? And he said, we're going to
get a Navy ROTC unit. I said, Dr. Williams, that's
not such great news. He said, what do you mean? I
said, well, I'm trying to get Army officers and the
Air Force, Air Force. I don't want Navy Marines.
And he kind of laughed and he said, well, you got
them. And he says, I want you to come up here and I'm
going to give you the application. And you know how
it is. It was that fit. And I need it by Monday
morning. And mind you, I don't have university
staff. I had an Army officer that we worked all
weekend, an Air Force officer, putting that thing
together. And some of them had some skills on this
job and were able to get the information out of the
registrars and this, that, and the other. But it
was a real process. Anyway, we met the deadline. As
far as you know, who were the key people in getting
that approved in Washington? General Simpson.
Simpson? Yeah, sure. He was the chief of personnel
for the Marine Corps. And I think Tiger Teague.
Tiger was involved, yes. Congressman. Yes, but
General Simpson was the motivator. Had you met him
at the time of that application? I had not. When did
you first meet him? Well, it was probably shortly
after that. We had him down for a weekend football
game. I don't remember the exact date, but I was
very impressed by him. General Simpson was quite a
person. Describe him. Make believe I'd never met
him. Describe him. Well, you know, he was in the
military all the way, and he was very well spoken
when he speaks, when he was educated, and he spoke
with authority. If he didn't like what you're
saying, you'd sit on his face, his lips would
tremble, and many times they trembled in front of
me because we didn't agree on everything. The big
change was he took me out of the chain of command
with Dr. Williams, because I used to go directly
with Dr. Williams. So then I go directly to General
Simpson. It was very good having a direct chain,
obviously. And sometimes it did not work to my
personal advantage because I was recommended by
the Army to General Simpson that I, when I was
preparing for retirement, be retired and do the
job that these guys are doing now. And General
Simpson didn't even forward it. And I couldn't go
around and I wouldn't and so forth. But I have that
letter and I'm well aware of it. And I was called by
the Army and told about it and so forth because they
wanted me in. And I really wanted the job. But they
could have easily made me a Don Johnson, Texas
militiaman and that sort of stuff. But anyway,
that was my only real conflict. Where did he
office? I'm sorry? General Simpson, where was his
office located? It was John Collis. And let's
bring Coldis in. Coldis was not here when you
arrived, was he? They were still doing Hannigan
and then Dr. Coldis. Hannigan left. As far as you
know, why did he leave? I have no idea. I just
thought he was ready to go. And do you remember
anything about the selection of John Coldis? Do
you remember his coming to campus? I knew nothing
about it. I was very impressed with him from the
very beginning. Of course, a guy who's a
workaholic and his memory for names, I just cannot
believe it. And, you know, at fish camp, like you
used to do, I'm sure you're aware, you go around the
room and everybody says, where are they from, and
this, that, and the other. I'll buy dinner for
anybody that I can't recognize. I never bought a
dinner. Let me, this is an editorial note to the
typist. As the new dean of faculties, I sat in on
some of the interviews for the new vice president
for student services, we called it then. And we
were all impressed with John Colas, but I was
critical because I thought, my goodness, he's at
East Texas State. Surely we can attract somebody
from some big, famous school. And he wasn't an
Aggie. He wasn't a Texan. He'd grown up in Gary,
Indiana. And I thought, my, my, my, how will he be
able to understand this school and what we are?
Well, when he got here from the first day until the
present, All of us have been deeply, deeply
impressed with him as a person, with his unfailing
memory of people's names, with his constant
smile, ceaseless work habits. He was always,
always trying to do what was best for Texas A&M and
was a splendid, splendid choice for the job. All
right, now, end of note. After he got here, what was
your relationship as commandant to him as the vice
president for students? Well, I used to visit him
regularly and talk about things. And if there was
something in the Corps, he'd talk to me about it and
so forth. So his door was open, no question about
it, night or day. And if there was a problem that
related to the Corps, he'd call me at night and I'd
take care of it the best I could. and we just had a
good working relationship. I respected him a
great deal. Did they move, they didn't move to that
house on the campus immediately, did they? No, I
don't know where the general deputy, I'm sorry,
I'm in the admin building, the retired general
that was on the head of the... Oh, Ludeke. Ludeke,
Ludeke was still living there. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
did, what, as far as you could tell, what did cold
us, what were his likes and his dislikes? What
pleased him most and what frustrated him most? I'd
say one, one thing that I never did much care about
was, you know, with these weekly staff meetings we
have, if it affected some personnel, people in the
system, everybody had to vote on that sort of
stuff, and I wasn't used to voting on whether some
guy's got a job or doesn't. I'd talk to him myself,
maybe, but I'd make the decision, and these
decisions were made, I guess, on, well, I don't
like this guy or I like this guy, you know, and when
we first got an attorney over there, he was
selected on that sort of basis, and so happened to
be the one I liked the best, but that, to me, seemed
like a command weakness, so to speak. But I really
never had any run-ins with him of any major
consequence and he supported me on everything
that I did. He tried to give me as much funding as he
could. This was a real difficult problem because I
guess everybody had funding problems but for
example we had a general almost every weekend and
Many of those came out of my pocket to take care of
them. I had no funds for renting a room or anything
like that. I couldn't ask one of them to pay their
room rent, although most of them had orders and
could have done it. And most of them, as a matter of
fact, did, but once in a while they didn't. Things
like that were kind of a problem. And I'm glad to see
the Commandant has more money than the President
has, I think.
It's a troublesome thing for the military, and I
went through this thing. I had 36 general officers
on campus for core things while I was commandant.
Wow. It takes a lot of doings, and several of them
stayed in our home, and I had four boys. It wasn't
easy. They had to be friends also. If these were
friends, I wouldn't have invited them to my home.
Among all of those visitors, who were some of the
most famous? Great neighbors. He was kind of my
rabbi in the army. And I admired him greatly. I
worked for him when I was a captain and a major. And
I'd send him on numerous occasions. And the day he
came down here was when Westport was having some
problems up there. They had this shooting
incident. And he got tears in his eyes for the
Corps. So that was great. Well, you know, we had
General Wyand, and he was the Air Force Chief of
Staff. And when he came down, he had some kind of
accident and was in a calf, so he was kind of hard to
handle. But I've got a list of them. I just hadn't
gone over that one too much. Most of them were Aggie
oriented. A great many of them were Aggies. for any
of those visitors, were there ever any incidents,
any goofy things? Never anything that came to my
mind. I will tell you, when an Air Force general was
here, the Air Force was responsible for taking
care of them, and they took care of one of these
generals, I don't remember which one now, and he
had a room over in the MSA, and they gave him the key,
and they opened the door, and there was a man and his
wife in bed, but they weren't doing anything, but
they did. Well, they didn't do a very good job of
checking it out before that general got there.
Wrong room. So he was somewhat upset about that,
but I was pranking them. I would have been, too. In
the first place, they should have gone with him and
put him in the room. In those days when you were
commandant,
did the Corps ever attempt any pranks involving a
visitor? No. I've never heard of any. No, they were
always. courteous and they respected those
generals. Most of those generals wanted to spend
time over in the quad if they could, but the
majority of them just flew in and flew out and they
had busy schedules. What did those visitors say to
you about their impression of A&M and about the
Corps? Well, they were nothing but impressed. As a
matter of fact, the only reason I could come up with
these names is I have letters from all of these
people that wrote, and they were always good about
Thank you for what you and Mrs. Parsons did, and
this, that, and the other. And most of them were
personalized, and they were very favorable. Now,
y'all were living where, you and your family? We
were down on Rosemary. And how difficult was it,
when you moved here, how difficult was it to find a
house that you liked? Well, I always had a large
house when I was a colonel. No, but I mean, was it
difficult to find a house when you got here? Oh,
heck no. Okay. No, they hadn't money yet. You know,
Roadmap is a pretty good neighborhood. And I built
a house right there on the corner. I've forgotten
the address, across from the TV station. And when
my wife died, my son said he'd never spend another
night there, so I packed the neighbor away. But I
loved it there. And then I married again, and we
lived in a rented place out there by that
restaurant out on the road there, where they had a
pond around it, I can't even remember the name of
it, towards Kirkland. Oh, going out east. Right.
And then I built a home over on the other side. Did
the Corps ever attempt any pranks on your house?
No. Or your car or anything like that? If it was, we
had, my wife had a Corvette, the other one, and it
was egged one time, but I don't think it was Corps. I
think it was just people would do things. It was
probably against my kids. Did the, were there ever
any phone calls in the middle of the night? Well,
yeah. From the war members you mean? No, no, no
jokes, no pranks. No, I never had anything but good
relations with them all the time. The, I will tell
one story, you know, I also was bonfire advisor,
although I used Jerry Maynard mostly for that
business, But after I retired and was over at the
police department and still under John Colders, I
maintained that job. And one night I got a call from
a prof, and I can't remember his name, and I
wouldn't want to name it anyway, but it lived over
there and across the street from the bonfire. And,
you know, they turn that music up a few decibels,
and this was 3, 3.15 in the morning. And he
identified himself, and, are you the bonfire
advisor? And he said, Well, I want that damn music
turned down. I can't sleep, and it's so loud, and
it's doing this, that, and the other, and I think
it's totally irresponsible, and ranting and
raving. I said, yes, sir, I'll take care of it.
Well, I called him up, and I said, turn the damn
music down. It is wrong, and it shouldn't be
blasting our way in it. You've got to have that, get
some earphones or something. Well, they turned it
down. And I couldn't get back to sleep, and my wife
couldn't. So we just said, well, let's get up. By
now it's about 4. I said, I'm going to call him back.
And I called him back, and I said, Dr. So-and-so, I
just wanted to check and make sure everything was
okay. And wham, he slammed that thing down. He hung
up on me. And so the next morning I went over to Dr.
Kohler, and I said, John, I need to tell you this,
because you'll probably get a phone call, but
here's what I did. And he laughed and said, that's
good bull. And he never got a phone call. Describe
the routine of Bonfire in your years. Well, it was
not near as sophisticated as it is nowadays. We had
the crane and all that stuff, but pretty much it was
mostly core, although a good many of the civilian
students worked on it. It was not as closely
supervised. I went to the cutting areas and like
that, but no more than just to walk around. I never
stayed out there. And the, was it, when you got
here, was it, had it been moved to the Duncan area?
It was the Duncan area. Okay. And were there, do you
remember any accidents, any problems? Well, no
real problems other than, you know, once in a while
somebody would get hurt. We did have two students
killed during this era, but it was bonfire related
in that there were the freshman and sophomore who
had worked all night, and when they got off the
deal, they decided to take a trip over to the little
house over there. much sleep and he had a root
bridge and killed him and I never of course told his
parents what happened. I just told them they were
in an accident.
During the bonfire building in that era, it was
only logs. They were using chainsaws and heavy
trucks and so forth. Were they also organized as
red pots and things like that? They had this red pot
hut, which I never went inside. I knew what was
going on in there. What was it? Some drinking?
Beer. I told them they shouldn't have it out here,
but I just did not enforce it. I probably could
have, but I didn't do it. About how long did the
cutting take? Three weeks. About three weeks. And
the bonfire in its shape was how many tiers high?
About four. It wasn't a whole lot smaller than what
they were doing over here. And every year, you
know, we set a limit and we'd go out there and check
over the limit. And it was always that way. Did you
or anybody else ever get any direction from
someone outside about doing this or that? Not
really. I never heard of anything. Everybody was
pretty positive. The problem is that, you know,
the students when they come to Bonfire are all
loaded. It was the former students out there
raising hell, which I found out when I was in the
police department because I used to have people in
plain clothes around there and so was I. And that
was where the trouble spots were, with the nickel.
In terms of other Aggie traditions, from the
Commandant's point of view, what role did the
Commandant's office play for silver tap
ceremonies? Well, we cooperated with it. I mean,
turning the lights out and that sort of stuff. And
the officers were encouraged to attend, but most
of them were Aggies anyway. And we didn't have to do
anything with nickel. But you see, the light
business was still on them where everybody turned
the lights off. During my tenure here, it softened
up on that, so it wasn't quite the same, but still
the meaning is still the same. Did you and your
staff normally go to Silvertaps? I went to them. I,
of course, don't know who went. What about a home
football weekend? Describe the commandant's
activities in the home football game. Well,
basically, he's taking care of whoever the guest
is. and making sure that they get to the
president's mansion and to their game and all that
sort of stuff. Let's be the reviewing officer.
Right, because as far as the Corps, the Corps
organized all that. And, you know, we had people
working with them and getting the tickets away
from them. Like I was telling my wife this morning,
there will be a lot of Aggies in the Corps who ain't
in the Corps. because a lot of them couldn't get a
ticket. They'd put on a uniform and march in with
them. I bet you that happens too. And normally did
the reviewing officer come commercial air or did
they come on a private? Mostly it was military air,
sometimes commercial, but they were pretty big
wheels. And then? Would you take them to midnight
yell practice? If they wanted to go, but most of
them didn't come to spend the night. Oh, they came
Saturday? The big guys would just come in here and
go to the review and go back. Some of them spent the
night, but those that wanted to go, we took them to
midnight, but not many of them wanted to. Do you
remember some of the happy moments? What were some
of the nicest things you remember relating to
those visitors and football games? Well, it was,
you know, all of them were just gentlemen. Most of
them had their wife or family sometimes,
particularly if they were around from this area.
Oh, I'll tell you one. It was General Patton when he
was here. This is the son of George S. Patton.
Right. He did not like to be referred to as a son of
General Patner, of course. I don't blame him. He's
a gentleman in his own right, and he's a good one.
But he did something that surprised the hell out of
me. When we were on the reviewing stand, boy, he was
impressed to beat hell. And he says, you know, I
know this ain't going to look good, but it's okay if
I take pictures. And he pulled a camera out, and he
was just too shy taking pictures. That impressed
me. because it's not exactly fully mirrored
there, you know, but I could have told him, heck, we
can get you all the pictures you want, but he, that
stuck with me, and oh, I can't, my name, you'll know
him, the black general we had over there who became
the Prairie View president. Oh, yes, yes. I can't
even remember right now, but he was two-star out of
here, and And he brought his family over and, you
know, the Corps really liked him. And he did walk
around with them and that sort of stuff and do the
things they liked. And, of course, blacks were not
many of them around in those days. All right. Back
to your task during the football game. So you would
be hosting the visitor for the game. Where did you
all sit during the football games? Usually up in
the president's box there, you know, in the lower
level. after they got the sky box once in a while, he
would invite us up there. And then, when the game's
over, then what? Well, usually they were ready to
go to bed or go home. And if they were staying over,
we'd take them out to dinner or have them in the
house or something like that. There was no
entertainment to speak of. Once in a while,
there'd be some guy One or two of them wanted to get
in a poker game. I don't gamble, but I knew some
people that did. We set that up, and that's a bunch
of Aggies. But they were no problem whatsoever,
other than the fact that you're tied down. You're
not with the Corps. You're with those people, as
you should be. During all of your years, did we ever
have any international visitors? I don't
remember having any. I don't remember any either.
I do remember another bonfire incident that you
probably heard of and nobody may have brought it
up. One year after I was in the police department, I
was standing over there by the huts they have out
there where they're selling the cokes and things,
and a car pulls up out there and stops, and a guy
jumps out and runs into the bonfire and throws a
Molotov on it, and there was a fireman from over at
College Station. And the kids around the bonfire,
they took off running after him. This guy, the car
he was in, they took off and left him. And he ran over
across the street over in those houses over there.
And they were hot on his trail. And he went into a
home over there which happened to be occupied and
rented to a bunch of girls and hid under a bed over
there. And they found him over there. And
fortunately, the police found him before the kids
found him. But... And he was a college station
fireman? Yes. And he was, he was. He was fired, of
course, but. And, and it, and the button. It did not
ignite it, but it could have. You know, it hadn't
been fueled or anything, but there's not no green
logs. It's not as easy as it looked, but it was just a
Molotov cocktail. But I had to be standing out
there, and I got on, I had my radio, and I called the
University Police, and told them they
hot-footed, but College Station was already out
there doing their job. And during your years, as
far as you were aware, did any of our students ever
kidnap any of the other Southwest Conference
mascots? Well, yes, they did. They got Bevo. Can
you share any information about that? Well, I know
he would not particularly want his name, but I'll
tell you who it was, John Adams. Well, you know
John. Oh, sure. John was CO. He's going to be there
tonight. Yeah, I know he will. He's a very close
friend of mine. John was CO of Squadron 3. And
Squadron 3 engineered this thing. And the first
time I knew of it, I was in the office. It was about 4,
35 o'clock in the morning. This was shortly after
my wife died. And I couldn't, you know, get up and go
right to the office. I'm sitting there, and I hear
all the noise. And I headed for the quad. And Dr.
Williams headed for the quad. at least I'm told.
And I saw that steer horns up and I turned and left
and went back to the office. Anyway, next morning,
Dr. Williams and I got together and he was taking
care of the business for the University of Texas.
And John was terribly afraid he was going to be
kicked out of the university. And his father was an
Air Force colonel and he flew out from Florida
intercede and whatever i never had any attention i
couldn't kick him out anyway i thought i
recommended probably could have i thought you
know it happened and uh i remember dr williams did a
marvelous job of cooling that thing down but the
true story when i asked john that's not long ago i'd
always heard that on the way back they had a flat
tire over in the caldwell And they're fixing the
flat and this highway patrol car pulls up. And this
guy asked him, you know, what are you boys up to?
We've got a flat. We're trying to get this steer
that we're taking over to vet college out to A&M.
And the guy walked around and looked at it and
obviously knew what it was. And he said, well, I'll
tell you what I'm going to do. And he had gloves on.
He took his gloves off and he put it up there. And he
says, I'm going to let you go this time. He had an
Aggie ring on him. Oh, that's marvelous. And I
asked John, is that a true tale? And John said, yes,
it is. Oh, that's marvelous. That is marvelous.
And John may have asked me about it, but I'll tell
you another one on John, too. Well, he went in the
Air Force for three months and then got out. And he
came by to see me and said he needed a job. He said,
you probably won't hire me because of it. I said,
John, what's that got to do with it? Anyway, I did
get a position for him one month, $9,000 a year.
This was 1973, I think. Anyway, he worked for me two
or three years there in the office and did an
outstanding job. We became very close. still are,
and I provided him a lot of input to his book because
some idiot had told him that no U.S. Army unit ever
reached the Yalu River during the war. And I had
told him about being on the Yalu River. And he said,
I'm not asking you on your word, but can you
document it? And I said, you bet I can document it. I
said, how would you like to see a picture of Buffalo
Bill Quinn, who was the regimental commander, and
all the officers that could leave the place of duty
pissing in the Yalu River. And I have that. Anyway,
he said he didn't think he needed that, but I sent
him a couple of articles. But our regiment was the
only regiment to reach it. And we left it a lot
faster than we got there, and we lost a lot of
people. unfortunately, but we got out before the
other regiment at Reservoir. We lost a lot of
people at Reservoir. I was good in Marines, but the
Marines probably took the biggest loss. But
anyway, that's another Adam's tale there. But my
other Adam's tale that he doesn't want me to ever
tell anybody, we were, I was This time I was still a
widower and we were talking about girls in the
Corps and what they were going to wear and this,
that, and the other. And the uniformed people sent
me six pair of pantyhose to ask me what color did
they want us to stock. I said, what the hell is it?
And I get John in. And John knew about as much as me.
And I said, John? You've got a problem here now.
You're working with this program. And I said,
here's a sample of the pantyhose. I want to know
what color do you recommend we use? And I gave him
the pantyhose, and that was his job. And he said,
don't you ever tell anybody that story.
In terms of all of the things to worry about and so
forth, Did, during your years, were there any
attempts by anybody to try to kidnap Reveley? I
don't know of any, but I... And do you remember
any...